there are a couple of vegan activists
who are calling satguru fake because he
did not say
the dairy industry should be stopped
while answering to a question
and also he made some jokes vegans
are you tired of being hated and reviled
by
christians muslims and jews guess what
there are also hundreds of millions of
hindus
who hate you just as intensely maybe
more
and why for the same reason the vast
majority of
buddhists hate you and i would know
cause i'm vegan
if there's one thing that morally
self-righteous profoundly spiritual
people
can't stand it's someone else with a
competing notion
of what is morally self-righteous
especially if their reasoning
is more profound the case study today is
a hindu leader
named sad guru he's got tens of millions
of views on youtube for video
and he's got many dozens of millions of
followers
sad guru's rationale for why you should
be vegetarian
but not vegan is actually
pseudo-scientific
in the most classical sense of
pseudoscience
the reasoning he sets out for you is
that if you eat
cow meat it contains dna
and that dna never fully leaves your
system somehow the cow dna
interacts with yours you know
it never occurs to these people how
totally counterproductive this kind of
scientific reasoning would be
if it were true don't you think there
are track and field athletes
who would run out the door right now and
kill and eat a hyena
if they thought they had one chance and
a thousand of getting a little bit of
hyena dna in to run that a little bit
faster no
don't you think there are a lot of kids
who want to be spider-man who start
eating spiders
do you think they're all kinds of dudes
who try to like drink lion blood
like if you actually believe this
[ __ ] that you're gonna get the dna
of the animals you you eat
it's gonna alloy with your dna and
change your nature and give you
all kinds of physical and spiritual
traits that's gonna transform who you
are eating meat
people would be into that if there were
any truth in those they're just a
slight difference if you could if men
could just get slightly more muscular or
slightly more
aggressive by eating gorilla steaks
there would be drive-through gorilla
burgers from america from
coast to coast are you kidding me so his
theory
his theory is taking a common old wives
tale
that somehow eating meat changes your
character through hormones
and he's kicking it up a notch he's
changing that it's genetic but
what do you know for some equally
ludicrous reason
sad guru does not teach does not preach
that drinking cow milk is a problem
fascinating
or in other words you never consume a
mammal because
it is too close to you and its memory is
too complex
and you will never be able to break it
down 100 percent
if you consume this partly you break the
break down the
genetic code another part of it remains
why do you think it is that eating the
cow's flesh is forbidden
because of this rationale that you're
going to take on the calcium but
drinking the cow's milk
he has so much to teach us this complete
nincompoop
sad guru look him up if you haven't
heard of him you'll be horrified
see if individual people out of their
insensitivity they want to eat whatever
they want to eat it's not my business
you want to cut a cow in your house and
eat i will not interfere
if you don't milk the cow it will go
straight to the slaughterhouse
that's where it's going that's where
they're all going those who don't have
milk
those who don't have the ability to work
that's where they're going
so
the thing is about self-evident moral
truths
they're only self-evident to people who
already believe in them and if you can
just
get people to slow down and stop
and examine their assumptions from a
detached perspective
they'll start to realize that they've
constructed
the known universe out of a whole bunch
of
seemingly reliable moral certainties
that really are quite unreliable
that's a good way to put it look all my
life
people invoke the name of the vietnam
war vietnam
learn the lessons of history vietnam as
if this has some
self-evident moral truth packaged up in
just in that one word
vietnam don't even bother to read the
wikipedia article don't bother to read a
book about the history of it just don't
think of
vietnam don't you know war doesn't solve
problems
vietnam violence doesn't solve problems
vietnam
don't you know people uh good-looking
young women with big breasts and
revealing clothing
holding signs above their head that's
what changes the world you want evidence
vietnam went into the vietnam war
there's a bunch of half-naked chicks
with face paint on half the time top
lesson those time magazine photos
that's one end of the vietnam vietnam
this one word just invoking it
it solves so many more so many political
problems
it brings in this sense of moral
certainty to our lives and you know what
the truth is
there are over 100 million vietnamese
people
in the world today and the 95 million of
them
who are living in vietnam they don't
have democracy
they don't have freedom of speech they
don't have human rights they don't have
any of the things that are taken for
granted
in south korea and japan and you know
what the difference is
south korea was conquered by the united
states of america
with tremendous violence unspeakable
violence but when the violence was over
they created the democratic society we
have today
in south korea you know how the
wonderful democratic society we have in
japan was created similar story
so if you could travel back in time if
you could travel back in time to about
1974 somebody asked you
hey what do you think we should do with
this vietnam war thing you
you're a time traveler you're from the
future you know how it goes
do you think it's cool first just wrap
this up and go home and first just give
up
and let a hundred billion people
approximately
have no human rights no democracy no
freedom of speech no economic rights the
economic rights are worth something too
by the way especially when you're
talking about a
period of time many decades only about
30 40 years the economic rights start to
matter
okay do you think the united states of
america should just pack up and go home
or do you think it would be possible to
kill another half a million people
to get out there and work let's let's
let's just get people
let's say murder 500 000
innocent civilians so that a hundred
million people in vietnam
could have democracy freedom of speech
human rights all the things the japanese
and south koreans
take for granted i'm not saying it could
be paradise
south korea and japan pretty close to
paradise compared to the reality
of what vietnam is doing if we could
just kill another half million people
to culture you think that's a good
policy move the united states of america
in 1974 huh
complicated isn't it complicated when
you go past
the thought terminating cliche of just
invoking this one word vietnam
to think ethically about what these
things really mean in their consequences
you know what there are a whole lot of
issues
within veganism that vegans are wrong
about
there are a whole lot of issues than
veganism where i actively
over a five-year period investigated
interrogated questioned and even mocked
my fellow vegans for being laughably
wrong
about so many things but you know what
hindus you know what
if if you really just stop and let
yourselves think about it
you're going to realize you're in the
wrong on this issue
i know what makes you feel good to throw
this in our face and say
how dare you be so morally
self-righteous how dare you presume to
know
the difference between good and evil
wouldn't it be a wonderful world if
instead of you preaching at me
or me preaching at you we could go along
hand in hand
and try to find out together if we could
if we could what's that phrase
learn truth from facts i'm not against
veganism
but the way some vegan activists
approach as if they're the absolute
right and
everyone else who disagree with them are
evil the cows here in the ashram are
kept in a way how cows were
kept in old traditional homes so it's no
problem
so would we bring back slavery if you
assured me that you were going to treat
the slaves
the same way you're used to it
old-fashioned indian homes how were the
slaves treated at ashrams was that
really great
oh no wait see how that works some
people are opposed to slavery absolutely
in principle
no matter how traditional it may be no
matter how much you may reassure me
that in your household or your religious
tradition you treated the slaves
just fine by the way both hinduism and
buddhism have a really long history of
slavery
nobody likes to talk about it either
you're opposed to slavery
or you're not either you're opposed to
raising a cow in captivity
so that you can squeeze the milk out of
its breasts and feed it to humans
or you are even today in my village home
we have cows and the activists say
making cows work is cruel
well if we don't make the cows work then
they will end up in the slaughterhouse
and i suppose you could never abolish
slavery
because if you don't put the slaves to
work they'll all starve to death
makes sense right yeah what do you know
it turns out
complex social change you know
legislation
new social policy it's not really
something can shrink down to this kind
of simplistic
thought-terminating cliche either you
want to live in a society
where millions of people are at all
times raising
exploiting killing and eating tens of
millions of animals
or you do not how you're going to
accomplish that transformation
over the next hundred years over the
next 300 years might take a little bit
of imagination
abolition of slavery also didn't happen
in a day there's a vegan activist
youtuber who says
satguru is spreading the message to his
millions of followers to continue
animal abuse his funding and encouraging
others to fund
animal abusive industries like dairy
industry well
these are big words just because you
have a youtube channel doesn't mean you
can say
anything for views yes yes it does
that's precisely what having a youtube
channel means
having a youtube channel means i can say
anything for views so according to you
the whole indian spiritual community
is fake
and i suppose you could never abolish
slavery
because if you don't put the slaves to
work they'll all starve to death
makes sense right
this is hammy even by my standards